## 4. Open Source and Repo Setup  Reflection

* Explain how to create a repository on GitHub and clone the repository to your local computer to a non-technical person
* Describe what open source means
* What do you think about Open Source? Does it make you nervous or protective? Does it feel like utopia?
* Assess the importance of using licenses
* What concepts were solidified in the challenge? Did you have any "aha" moments? What did you struggle with?
* Did you find any resources on your own that helped you better understand a topic? If so, please list it.

I made it through this challenge fairly easily, which was a relief to me after having some difficulty with the previous ones.  In order to create a repository on GitHub, you first need to go to github.com/new.  Once there, you need to create a name for your repo.  The name needs to be [USERNAME].github.io in order to be able to create the repo.  (Note: if your user name has caps in it, you must make them all lowercase in order to be able to create the repo!)  You also want to check "Initialize this project with a README" and add an MIT license on the bottom.  Once you create your repo, you want to go into "settings" on the right side of the page.  In the "features" section, you will see a box labeled "issues".  Click that. (Mine was already checked, but you want to make sure).  This will allow others to give you feedback on your site.  Your repo is now complete and ready for cloning!  In order to clone, you want to be on your command line in the terminal.  When you get into the terminal, navigate the command line to the directory into which you want to put your website.  Once there, you can type "git clone [URL]". You can copy and paste the URL from your repo.  It is found directly below where you clicked on "settings" earlier.  You have now cloned the file onto your computer!

Open Source software allows a program to be accessed by the public to see how it was created, as well as to make changes to the current program.  In my opinion, Open Source software can be both a blessing and a curse.  On one hand, it allows anyone to improve your site or correct bugs/mistakes by being able to access the source code themselves.  On the other hand, I would imagine that this opens the site up to be more easily corrupted or tainted.  I'm not sure I would want just anyone to be able to access the source code of my website and make any changes they see fit!  Open Source licensing is important because it allows others to access your code to make improvements or suggestions, but it protects the original creator by not allowing anyone else to take credit for the work.  Without a license, you relinquish any copyright on your website and allow others to steal and take credit for it themselves.

I really found it more simple than I was expecting to create a new repo and clone it to my computer.  Also after doing this project, staging, adding and committing files to GitHub is becoming second nature.  My confidence took a bit of a hit yesterday when working on challenges that were not going as planned or expected, so it was nice to be able to get through a challenge and have everything work the way it is supposed to!  I still have an issue where I am unable to create a commit message in Sublime (git commit -v), but I am hoping to get that resolved today.
