Scott Reiman's DBC Phase 0 Technical Blog

Git and GitHub

11-20-2014

Well, I'm almost through my first week of DevBootcamp's Phase 0 prep program, and I have learned more during this week than I'd ever imagined.  The main crux of the curriculum this week consisted of two fairly foreign concepts to me; git and GitHub.  In order to understand the purpose of git and GitHub, one must first understand the concept of version control.  Version control is not a difficult concept to grasp.  Think of a video game where you reach checkpoints that save your progress as you go along.  Without these checkpoints, it would be pretty annoying if you got almost to the end of the game, and then you had to start all the way at the beginning when your character died.  Instead, you just go back to the last checkpoint you reached and start from there. Also, if there was an item you forgot to collect, or if you just wanted to explore a land you had previously visited, you could go back to any checkpoint you passed during the entire game and start from there. That's version control.  As developers write code (or really as anyone writes anything that they want to save periodically throughout the creation of the project), its great to have the ability to go back to any point during the creation of the project and change a mistake that was made, without having to start all over or search the entire file to find one small mistake.  That's where git comes in.  

Git is a version control system that gives developers (or anyone) the ability to keep track of changes they made throughout the creation of the project.  One analogy that I found helpful was to think of your project as a tree.  Git allows you to make "branches" off the tree, so that you can work on updates to your project without affecting the original file.  When you are done making changes to the project, and have looked over everything to make sure it makes sense, then you can merge it with the original source file.  This is increasingly handy when working on a group project.  In that case, you can make changes or additions to the main file on your branch, and then submit it to the group through GitHub (we'll get to that in a minute) so that a second, third or fourth pair of eyes can look at what you've created to ensure that it makes sense before merging it with the original file.  You can never have too many people doublecheck your work, especially when working with elaborate code!

So if that's git, then what's GitHub? GitHub is an open source website, meaning it is a place where people can store coding projects they are working on, as well as view other people's projects and make changes.  Unlike git, which is local on your personal computer, GitHub is remote on the internet.  Anyone can access GitHub and look at the files that are stored there and make changes to them.  Before these changes are merged with the original file, the creator has the chance to look at what was changed and decide if they want to accept those changes or not.  So in our example from the previous paragraph, when working on a group project, a person can make changes to the "tree" by creating a "branch" in git.  When their changes are complete, they can "push" (another word for upload) those changes to GitHub, where the other members of the team, who may be hundreds or even thousands of miles away, can review the changes and additions before merging it with the original group project file.

I'm sure I'll be learning a whole lot more about git and GitHub over the next several weeks, but for now that's a basic overview of the difference between the two, and what the advantages are of using them.  Now if you'll excuse me, I have to go push this branch to GitHub so I can add it to my tree.   



